Update profiler doc (2/n) (#11430)
PyTorchLightning/pytorch-lightning: docs/source/advanced/profiler.rst

.. _profiler:

#########
Profiling
#########

> Profiling your training/testing/inference run can help you understand if there are any bottlenecks in your code. The reports can be generated with ``trainer.fit()`` ``trainer.test()``, ``trainer.validate()`` and ``trainer.predict()`` with the respective actions called.

Reviewer: what does "with the respective actions called" mean?

> Profiling your training/testing/inference run can help you understand if there are any bottlenecks in your code. The reports can be generated with ``trainer.fit()`` ``trainer.test()``, ``trainer.validate()`` and ``trainer.predict()`` with the respective actions called.

Author: the report will only contain the hooks that are being called for the respective trainer methods.
I guess `for their respective actions` would be better.

------------

****************
Built-in Actions
****************

PyTorch Lightning supports profiling standard actions in the training loop out of the box, including:

- on_epoch_start
- on_epoch_end
- on_batch_start
- model_forward
- model_backward
- on_after_backward
- optimizer_step
- on_batch_end
- training_step_end
- on_training_end
- etc...

------------

*******************
Supported Profilers
*******************

Lightning provides the following profilers:

Simple Profiler
===============

If you only wish to profile the standard actions, you can set ``profiler="simple"``. It uses the built-in
:class:`~pytorch_lightning.profiler.simple.SimpleProfiler`.

.. code-block:: python

    # by passing a string
    trainer = Trainer(..., profiler="simple")

    # or by passing an instance

>     from pytorch_lightning.profiler.simple import SimpleProfiler

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    from pytorch_lightning.profiler import SimpleProfiler
```

Reviewer 2: @rohitgr7 Would you prefer keeping this?

Author: my bad! forgot to commit. :)

    profiler = SimpleProfiler()
    trainer = Trainer(..., profiler=profiler)

> The profiler's results will be printed at the completion of a training ``trainer.fit()``. Note that there are a lot more actions that will be present in the finalized

Reviewer: I would put the note below ("the above output is trunceded, more actions will be listed in the ...")

    |  on_train_batch_start                            |  7.578e-05      	|  7.578e-05      |
    |  [LightningModule]BoringModel.training_step_end  |  1.556e-06      	|  1.556e-06      |
    |  model_forward                                   |  0.00028337     	|  0.00028337     |
    |  [LightningModule]BoringModel.optimizer_step     |  0.0011853      	|  0.0011853      |
    |  run_training_batch                              |  0.0016311      	|  0.0016311      |
    |  on_train_batch_end                              |  7.6117e-05     	|  7.6117e-05     |
    |  run_training_epoch                              |  0.0036915      	|  0.0036915      |
    |  [LightningModule]BoringModel.on_epoch_end       |  1.079e-06      	|  1.079e-06      |
    |  [LightningModule]BoringModel.on_train_end       |  1.509e-06      	|  1.509e-06      |
    |  [LightningModule]BoringModel.on_fit_end         |  3.127e-06      	|  3.127e-06      |
    |  [LightningModule]BoringModel.teardown           |  2.581e-06      	|  2.581e-06      |
    -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Advanced Profiler
=================

> If you want more information on the functions called during each event, you can use the :class:`~pytorch_lighting.profiler.advanced.AdvancedProfiler`.

Reviewer 2: typo :dog:
```suggestion
If you want more information on the functions called during each event, you can use the :class:`~pytorch_lightning.profiler.advanced.AdvancedProfiler`.
```

Author: always happen with lightning 😅 
https://github.com/PyTorchLightning/pytorch-lightning#lightning-lite  here too 😆

This option uses Python's `cProfiler <https://docs.python.org/3/library/profile.html#module-cProfile>`_ to provide an in-depth report of time spent within *each* function called in your code.

.. code-block:: python

    # by passing a string
    trainer = Trainer(..., profiler="advanced")

    # or by passing an instance

>     from pytorch_lightning.profiler.advanced import AdvancedProfiler

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    from pytorch_lightning.profiler import AdvancedProfiler
```

.. _profiler:

#########
Profiling
#########

Profiling your training/testing/inference run can help you understand if there are any bottlenecks in your code. The reports can be generated with ``trainer.fit()`` ``trainer.test()``, ``trainer.validate()`` and ``trainer.predict()`` with the respective actions called.

------------

****************
Built-in Actions
****************

PyTorch Lightning supports profiling standard actions in the training loop out of the box, including:

- on_epoch_start
- on_epoch_end
- on_batch_start
- model_forward
- model_backward
- on_after_backward
- optimizer_step
- on_batch_end
- training_step_end
- on_training_end
- etc...

------------

*******************
Supported Profilers
*******************

Lightning provides the following profilers:

Simple Profiler
===============

If you only wish to profile the standard actions, you can set ``profiler="simple"``. It uses the built-in
:class:`~pytorch_lightning.profiler.simple.SimpleProfiler`.

.. code-block:: python

>     # by passing a string

Reviewer 3: Mind adding the import path of the `SimpleProfiler` ?

    trainer = Trainer(..., profiler="simple")

    # or by passing an instance
    profiler = SimpleProfiler()
    trainer = Trainer(..., profiler=profiler)

The profiler's results will be printed at the completion of a training ``trainer.fit()``. Note that there are a lot more actions that will be present in the finalized

> report. Below one is just an example containing a few:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
report. Find below an example of the :class:`~pytorch_lightning.profiler.simple.SimpleProfiler` report:
```

.. code-block::

    FIT Profiler Report

    -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    |  Action                                          |  Mean duration (s)	|  Total time (s) |
    -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

>     |  [LightningModule]BoringModel.prepare_data       |  2.112e-06      	|  2.112e-06      |

Reviewer 3: This doesn't look entirely right. We should find the percentage and the list should be ordered based on total time.

Author: percentage and call count comes with `extended=True`(default). I tried putting it here, but it was super-ugly and nothing was clear from the output. This one is also not the original exact output. Made some alignment to render it properly in the docs.

    |  model_forward                                   |  0.00028337     	|  0.00028337     |
    |  [LightningModule]BoringModel.optimizer_step     |  0.0011853      	|  0.0011853      |
    |  run_training_batch                              |  0.0016311      	|  0.0016311      |
    |  on_train_batch_end                              |  7.6117e-05     	|  7.6117e-05     |
    |  run_training_epoch                              |  0.0036915      	|  0.0036915      |
    |  [LightningModule]BoringModel.on_epoch_end       |  1.079e-06      	|  1.079e-06      |
    |  [LightningModule]BoringModel.on_train_end       |  1.509e-06      	|  1.509e-06      |
    |  [LightningModule]BoringModel.on_fit_end         |  3.127e-06      	|  3.127e-06      |
    |  [LightningModule]BoringModel.teardown           |  2.581e-06      	|  2.581e-06      |
    -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Advanced Profiler
=================

If you want more information on the functions called during each event, you can use the :class:`~pytorch_lighting.profiler.advanced.AdvancedProfiler`.

> This option uses Python's `cProfiler <https://docs.python.org/3/library/profile.html#module-cProfile>`_ to provide a report of time spent on *each* function called within your code.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This option uses Python's `cProfiler <https://docs.python.org/3/library/profile.html#module-cProfile>`_ to provide an in-depth report of time spent within *each* function called in your code.
```

.. code-block:: python

    # by passing a string
    trainer = Trainer(..., profiler="advanced")

    # or by passing an instance

>     profiler = AdvancedProfiler()

Reviewer 3: Add path to import the `AdvancedProfiler`.

    Profiler Report

    Profile stats for: get_train_batch
            4869394 function calls (4863767 primitive calls) in 18.893 seconds
    Ordered by: cumulative time
    List reduced from 76 to 10 due to restriction <10>
    ncalls  tottime  percall  cumtime  percall filename:lineno(function)
    3752/1876    0.011    0.000   18.887    0.010 {built-in method builtins.next}
        1876     0.008    0.000   18.877    0.010 dataloader.py:344(__next__)
        1876     0.074    0.000   18.869    0.010 dataloader.py:383(_next_data)
        1875     0.012    0.000   18.721    0.010 fetch.py:42(fetch)
        1875     0.084    0.000   18.290    0.010 fetch.py:44(<listcomp>)
        60000    1.759    0.000   18.206    0.000 mnist.py:80(__getitem__)
        60000    0.267    0.000   13.022    0.000 transforms.py:68(__call__)
        60000    0.182    0.000    7.020    0.000 transforms.py:93(__call__)
        60000    1.651    0.000    6.839    0.000 functional.py:42(to_tensor)
        60000    0.260    0.000    5.734    0.000 transforms.py:167(__call__)

PyTorch Profiler
================

Autograd includes a profiler that lets you inspect the cost of different operators

> inside your model - both on the CPU and GPU. It uses the built-in :class:`~pytorch_lightning.profiler.pytorch.PyTorchProfiler`.

Reviewer 3: Let's add a link to their repo.

Author: The profiler doc link is mentioned in 2 lines below. Is there any other reference you are referring to?

To read more about the PyTorch Profiler and all its options,
have a look at its `docs <https://pytorch.org/docs/master/profiler.html>`_.

.. code-block:: python

    # by passing a string
    trainer = Trainer(..., profiler="pytorch")

    # or by passing an instance
    profiler = PyTorchProfiler()
    trainer = Trainer(..., profiler=profiler)

> This profiler works with PyTorch ``DistributedDataParallel``.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This profiler works with multi-devices training.
```

    empty_like             0.14%            2.387us          0.41%            6.859us          6.859us
    empty_strided          0.38%            6.351us          0.38%            6.351us          3.175us
    fill_                  0.28%            4.782us          0.33%            5.566us          2.783us
    expand                 0.20%            3.336us          0.28%            4.743us          4.743us
    empty                  0.27%            4.456us          0.27%            4.456us          2.228us
    copy_                  0.15%            2.526us          0.15%            2.526us          2.526us
    broadcast_tensors      0.15%            2.492us          0.15%            2.492us          2.492us
    size                   0.06%            0.967us          0.06%            0.967us          0.484us
    is_complex             0.06%            0.961us          0.06%            0.961us          0.481us
    stride                 0.03%            0.517us          0.03%            0.517us          0.517us
    ---------------------  ---------------  ---------------  ---------------  ---------------  ---------------
    Self CPU time total: 1.681ms

> When running with ``PyTorchProfiler(emit_nvtx=True)``. You should run as following:

Reviewer 3: Let's add we can visualize the trace in Chrome Trace (+ small giff of the steps) or tensorboard with the profiler plugin (+ small gif of the steps).

Author: can I add it later? I need to refine the outputs for each profiler. so if I create a gif now, I'll need to create one more again after the render is changed.

        def start(self, action_name):
            if action_name not in self._action_first_occurance:
                self._action_first_occurance[action_name] = time.strftime("%m/%d/%Y, %H:%M:%S")

        def stop(self, action_name):
            self._action_count[action_name] += 1

        def summary(self):
            res = f"\nProfile Summary: \n"
            max_len = max(len(x) for x in self._action_count)

            for action_name in self._action_count:
                # generate summary for actions called more than once
                if self._action_count[action_name] > 1:
                    res += (
                        f"{action_name:<{max_len}s} \t "
                        + "self._action_first_occurance[action_name]} \t "
                        + "{self._action_count[action_name]} \n"
                    )

            return res

        def teardown(self, stage):
            self._action_count = {}
            self._action_first_occurance = {}
            super().teardown(stage=stage)

.. code-block:: python

    trainer = Trainer(..., profiler=ActionCountProfiler())
    trainer.fit(...)

Customize Profiling

> ===================

Reviewer 3: Neat !

        60000    1.651    0.000    6.839    0.000 functional.py:42(to_tensor)
        60000    0.260    0.000    5.734    0.000 transforms.py:167(__call__)

PyTorch Profiler
================

Autograd includes a profiler that lets you inspect the cost of different operators
inside your model - both on the CPU and GPU. It uses the built-in :class:`~pytorch_lightning.profiler.pytorch.PyTorchProfiler`.

To read more about the PyTorch Profiler and all its options,
have a look at its `docs <https://pytorch.org/docs/master/profiler.html>`_.

.. code-block:: python

    # by passing a string
    trainer = Trainer(..., profiler="pytorch")

    # or by passing an instance

>     from pytorch_lightning.profiler.pytorch import PyTorchProfiler

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    from pytorch_lightning.profiler import PyTorchProfiler
```

    ---------------------  ---------------  ---------------  ---------------  ---------------  ---------------
    Self CPU time total: 1.681ms

> When running with ``PyTorchProfiler(emit_nvtx=True)``. You should run as following:

Reviewer: There is a period, let's delete it.

.. code-block::

    nvprof --profile-from-start off -o trace_name.prof -- <regular command here>

To visualize the profiled operation, you can either:

.. code-block::

    nvvp trace_name.prof

.. code-block::

    python -c 'import torch; print(torch.autograd.profiler.load_nvprof("trace_name.prof"))'

----------------

****************
Custom Profiling
****************

Custom Profiler
===============

> You can also configure a custom profiler and pass it to the Trainer. To configure it by subclassing :class:`~pytorch_lightning.profiler.base.BaseProfiler`.

Reviewer: The sentence is broken

> The following is a simple example the profilers the first occurance and total calls to each action:

Reviewer: this one too :))

            self._action_first_occurance = {}

        def start(self, action_name):
            if action_name not in self._action_first_occurance:
                self._action_first_occurance[action_name] = time.strftime("%m/%d/%Y, %H:%M:%S")

        def stop(self, action_name):
            self._action_count[action_name] += 1

        def summary(self):
            res = f"\nProfile Summary: \n"
            max_len = max(len(x) for x in self._action_count)

            for action_name in self._action_count:
                # generate summary for actions called more than once
                if self._action_count[action_name] > 1:
                    res += (
                        f"{action_name:<{max_len}s} \t "
                        + "self._action_first_occurance[action_name]} \t "
                        + "{self._action_count[action_name]} \n"
                    )

            return res

        def teardown(self, stage):
            self._action_count = {}
            self._action_first_occurance = {}
            super().teardown(stage=stage)

.. code-block:: python

    trainer = Trainer(..., profiler=ActionCountProfiler())
    trainer.fit(...)

> Customize Profiling

Reviewer: There are already two titles above: "custom profiling" and "custom profiler". This does not fit well here.

> Customize Profiling
> ===================

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Profile Your Own Logic
======================
```
or something like that maybe? "Customize Profiling" sounds a bit ambiguous to me.

Author: in the 2nd subsection user is not changing any logic, but adding another hook to be profiled using an existing profiler.. `Your Logic` might not be the best title. better suggestions?

Author: that sort of missing the first sub-seection.
took the motivation from here: https://pytorch-lightning.readthedocs.io/en/latest/common/checkpointing.html#customize-checkpointing

Author: ah! you are right.. sorry I was referring to `Custom Profiling`

        def start(self, action_name):
            if action_name not in self._action_first_occurance:
                self._action_first_occurance[action_name] = time.strftime("%m/%d/%Y, %H:%M:%S")

        def stop(self, action_name):
            self._action_count[action_name] += 1

        def summary(self):
            res = f"\nProfile Summary: \n"
            max_len = max(len(x) for x in self._action_count)

            for action_name in self._action_count:
                # generate summary for actions called more than once
                if self._action_count[action_name] > 1:
                    res += (
                        f"{action_name:<{max_len}s} \t "
                        + "self._action_first_occurance[action_name]} \t "
                        + "{self._action_count[action_name]} \n"
                    )

            return res

        def teardown(self, stage):
            self._action_count = {}
            self._action_first_occurance = {}
            super().teardown(stage=stage)

.. code-block:: python

    trainer = Trainer(..., profiler=ActionCountProfiler())
    trainer.fit(...)

Profile Logic of Your Interest
==============================

> You can also reference this profiler in your LightningModule to profile specific actions of interest.
> Each profiler has a method ``profile()``m which returns a context handler. Simply pass in the name of
> your action that you want to track and the profiler will record performance for code executed within this context.

Reviewer 2: Profilers can be used outside LightningModule, too, right?

```suggestion
You can also reference this profiler in your script to profile specific actions of interest.
Each profiler has a method ``profile()``m which returns a context handler. Simply pass in the name of
your action that you want to track and the profiler will record performance for code executed within this context.
```

Author: yes.. but these statements are explaining the attached example. You can refer them anywhere anyways as long as teardown is called to clear the cache.
